[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I was raised in a
traditional Indian household
by two of the most loving
and supportive parents.
They taught me to strive for
excellence and perfection
and taught me to work
hard for the things
that I wanted in my life.
Although that led to a
very successful career,
it led to a lot of challenges
in intimacy and dating.
I had a really hard time
opening up and being
vulnerable with my partners.
And I put a lot of
pressure on myself
to be perfect in every moment.
This led to guilt and
shame that I internalized,
which then led to
crippling anxiety
when we would try
to be intimate.
I'll never forget the first time
I experienced what I thought
was erectile dysfunction.
But it was actually just
performance anxiety.
But I had no idea.
I just thought I was broken.
So I was in my 20s,
dating a beautiful girl.
And I just couldn't get aroused.
It was the first
time I'd experienced
anything of the sort.
And I was devastated.
I thought my life was over.
I experienced shame, guilt,
worry, embarrassment, fear,
anxiety.
But I was motivated enough
to find that magic pill.
So I bought all the supplements.
I paid for the expensive
red light therapy machines
and biohacking devices.
I read all the books.
I even almost injected
my penis with stem cells.
[LAUGHTER]
Fortunately, I didn't
go down that path.
But it did start a
very important line
of inquiry with myself
around what was going on.
What was my body
trying to teach me?
Why was my poor nervous
system so activated?
On the recommendation
of a friend,
I hired a hypnotherapist.
And after several sessions and
a lot of deep conversations,
I stumbled on an insight
that would change the way I
looked at health forever.
It turns out my body was
responding to a deep core
emotional wound and limiting
belief learned in childhood
that if I wasn't
showing up perfectly,
I wasn't deserving
of love and pleasure.
You see, my body was
not broken, my mind was.
My deepest core
emotional wounding
was expressing itself
as a physical symptom.
Why is it that the mental
and emotional aspects
of our physical health
symptoms are oftentimes
the last things we consider?
We're living in a
growing health epidemic.
16.9 million people are
living in the United States
today with cancer, projected
to be 22.2 million by 2030.
24 million Americans are
living with some type
of autoimmune condition.
86 million Americans are
living with some type
of cardiovascular disease.
Addiction, anxiety, and
depression have 3x since
the dawn of the pandemic.
And what is the common
denominator here?
Well, the CDC did a study
that linked every single one
of those diseases back to
adverse childhood experiences
and the chronic stress
that's put on our bodies
from being in a state of
fight-or-flight for so long.
Now, I used to think
that an adverse childhood
experience meant the big-T
Trauma, the physical abuse,
the sexual abuse.
I was shocked to discover
that the CDC actually
defined emotional neglect,
like rejection and abandonment,
to be 1 of 10 adverse
childhood experiences that
lead to poor health symptoms.
Now, furthermore,
I used to think
that a fight-or-flight response
was like the big freak-outs
and the panic attacks.
I was surprised to discover
that there are actually
four documented types of
fight-or-flight responses, one
of them being people pleasing.
How many of you know
somebody or have personally
experienced
difficulty in setting
healthy boundaries out of a fear
of disappointing somebody else?
How many of you either know
someone personally or personally
have a hard time speaking
your truth out of a fear
of disappointing somebody else?
We believe that these chronic
survival patterns, learned
as a result of adverse
childhood experiences,
are having a much greater
impact on our health
than we're currently
taking seriously.
We believe that
emotional lab reporting
needs to be done
on the forefront,
alongside other medical
diagnostic tools, not
as a last-ditch effort,
where we're proactively
looking for and uncovering
those chronic survival
patterns learned as a result of
adverse childhood experiences
that are contributing
to poor health symptoms.
Over the last
several years, we've
partnered with Dr. Nasha Winters
and the Metabolic Terrain
Institute of Health to run 312
emotional lab reports on 107
cancer patients and
collect up to 500 data
points on ACEs per patient.
The data does not lie.
Out of our patient
population, 70% of them
are able to track present-day
emotional stressors back
to adverse childhood experiences
where they didn't feel seen,
where they learned
that they didn't
matter, where they
felt invisible
to a primary caretaker.
Again, the data does not lie.
Now, our approach to
precision emotional healing
hinges on one big idea.
When you use specific tools
and methodologies to address
the root chronic
survival patterns,
learned as a result of
adverse childhood experiences
that are contributing to
nervous system dysregulation,
you can experience quantum
shifts in your health and life.
Let's take Angie as an example.
Angie is a three-time
leukemia survivor.
Now, you can imagine
the type of narratives
that she might be living
with, after having
three bouts with leukemia.
What's wrong with me?
Why am I broken?
You can imagine
the fear you might
have just by getting leukemia
once, going into remission,
and then just silently wondering
if it's going to come back.
Fast forward that three times.
Angie also felt like
a burden, though.
So she didn't want to put that
on her friends and family.
So she internalized
all that stress.
Angie knew that something
needed to change.
And when she came to us,
we knew we could help her.
Over three months,
we supported Angie
in tracking all of those
little emotional triggers,
the big-T Triggers and
the little-t triggers,
the fears of going
to get her labs done,
the moments where she felt
like a burden, the moments
where she didn't feel
seen by her doctors.
And we tracked those feelings
all the way back in time
to the original root
experiences, the five-year-old
in her that learned she had
to people please in order
to be safe.
Angie then engaged in a
consistent breathwork practice
to regulate her nervous system.
She learned tools like inner
child work and internal family
systems to hold space for that
scared little girl within her,
to hold space for
the anger and learn
how to feel it and express it.
She learned tools like
nonviolent communication
and authentic
relating so that she
could learn how to communicate
her needs in a healthy way
with the people in her life.
In three months, Angie's
life is completely different.
Not only does Angie not live
with the fear of cancer coming
back anymore, but
she is profoundly
grateful for every single lesson
and blessing that has come
from each of her diagnoses.
She no longer feels
like a burden.
And she can communicate
her needs effectively
with her family and
get them met in return.
And most importantly,
Angie was told
after three bouts with
leukemia that she would never
have a total blood cell count
back in a normal range again.
Well, after three months
of precision emotional
healing and looking at the
root of her nervous system
dysregulation, Angie went
and got her blood work done.
And to her shock and
her oncologist's shock,
her total blood cell count
was back in a normal range.
And not just normal for
people living with cancer,
this is normal for
people in general.
If something like
this could be possible
for an individual like
Angie, if transformations
could be possible
for someone like me,
who used to have so much
anxiety and so much self-shame
just circulating
in the background,
to feeling safe in my body
for the first time in my life,
able to feel my emotions
and express them,
what could be possible for you?
What could be possible if you
learned to slow down and listen
to the wisdom of your
symptoms before you reached
for the next greatest biohacking
tool or gadget or supplement?
We believe that your mind
can play the greatest role
and is your biggest ally
on your healing journey.
But in order to activate
the healer of the mind,
you must have courage.
The courage to hold
space for all of you
and to accept yourself as
you are, especially the parts
that you don't want to.
The courage to believe that
you are not your diagnosis,
that you are not
broken, and that you
can have a new
possibility in the future.
The courage to let
go of resentments
that do not serve and ask
for the help you need.
We believe that it's time to
start looking at our childhoods
through the lens of
curiosity instead of fear.
And we believe that if we
band together as a community
and support each other on this
journey of radical self-love,
we will have the greatest
trickle-down impact
on the future of health.
Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]